---
layout: post
title: "GSoC:Week 2 Update"
location: Kollam
description: ""
category: gsoc
tags: []
---

I ran into some problems with virtualenvs last week and it took a quite
a bit of time identifying and fixing the issue. I use 
[powerline](https://github.com/Lokaltog/powerline) with tmux, vim and zsh and
it's realy useful as I work mostly from a terminal and my window manager
doesn't provide a taskbar. Powerline requires $PYTHONPATH to be set explicitly
and archlinux comes with python3 as default, this can lead to problem's with
python2 apps. This was a non issue in the beginning as I work inside a
virtualenv. However I was working with a module which required cairo and
pycairo doesen't play well with virtualenvs and it was trying to use systems
pycairo module. This resulted in my systems python3 sitepackages path getting
included in python path of the virtualenvs. Apart from this I also managed to
do some permanant damage to my virtualenvs by force installing some packages.
After finally figuring out what's wrong I ended up setting python path in the
individual programs confs,  nuked .virtualenvwrapper directory and went for a
clean install.

So here is the porting tasks current status,

* TODO dhwani
* TODO webfonts
* TODO katapayadi numbers
* DONE fortune
* DONE text similarity
* DONE stemmer
* DONE shingling
* DONE sort
* DONE complex script rendere
* DONE approxsearch
* DONE dictionary
* DONE guesslang
* DONE payyans
* DONE spellcheck
* DONE transliterate
* DONE hyphenate
* DONE syllabalize
* DONE ngram
* DONE soundex
* DONE chardetails

I have got the basic python packages and templates for the above modules, I
still have to write unit tests, write proper documentation and go through the
templates once again so that everything is consistent.Also I have to decide
on names so that these can be released on pypi.
