---
layout: post
title: "GSoc:Week3 Update"
location: Kollam
description: ""
category: gsoc
tags: []
---
This week I completed the porting of *Katapayadi Numbers*. So all the modules
except for dhwani TTS and webfonts modules have been ported. I tried a hand at 
porting dhwani, which is written in C with C++ apis. The python module was using
CDLL and ctypes to directly use the c binaries. I tried to compile dhwani
from source only to get a zlib headers missing error. *zlib* was already 
installed in my system and I also checked for zlib.h in /usr/includes. It looks like
some tinkering around will be required for getting this to compile. So I 
decided to try later with a binary and moved on to the webfonts.

Silpa has a webfonts module which provide webfonts for Indian languages
which could be easily added to any site by simply linking a url. Since
we have moved to flask most of the code had to be rewritten to get this
module working. Now multiple fonts can be linked with a single url. I got 
the dynamic css part working but for some reason the fonts simply are not
loading. The webfont module is using @font-face feature to include the fonts
and [this](http://paulirish.com/2009/bulletproof-font-face-implementation-syntax/)
is good article by Paul Irish on getting it to work across all browsers.
I will try to host the site on openshift and try again to make sure the
issue is not due to any problem with serving them from localhost.

Also the webfonts module is written in two parts a normal python module
which will fit into silpa and the webfonts serving api as a blueprint which
allows me to simply attach it to flasks app object either at a urlprefix 
or a subdomain in a single line of code which is realy usefull. Flask is
extremely flexible and you can organize your app as you please.

